After clearing the junk from his own life, Fargo entrepreneur finds treasure via junk-removal business
Jake Bacon was an elite high school hockey player when his dad's death shattered his world. After a struggle with addiction, he found love, faith, sobriety and a new business that's already thriving.

FARGO — With little more than a 2002 GMC Sierra pickup and the work ethic that made him an elite hockey player in high school, Jake Bacon has turned other people’s junk into his treasure.

In May, the 23-year-old Fargo man launched Jake’s Junk Removal Service to help his clients clear their homes, yards and businesses of the unwanted stuff cluttering up their lives.

Since then, Bacon has helped people rid their basements and storage units of everything from broken recliners and obsolete appliances to dead branches, living wasps’ nests and even one legless grand piano.

No job seems too big, too small or too far away. Sometimes he only drives across town to clean out an Airbnb owner’s garage so their guests can use it again. But he’s also journeyed as far as Aberdeen, S.D., to help clients with bigger clean-ups.

It’s tough, dirty work — which occasionally requires a tetanus booster — but Bacon doesn’t mind a challenge.

“I love it,” he says. “I wake up excited to do what I do every day.”

Besides, Bacon likes giving his clients peace of mind when he hauls away the junk that has cluttered up their surroundings for too long.

If anyone understands what it's like to get rid of the things that no longer serve you, it's Bacon.

At just 16, Bacon’s entire world changed when his dad died in a car accident. Over time, he lapsed into drug abuse.

But after struggling for several years, the Fargo resident got his life on the right track. He met the perfect girl and they’re getting married in December. He found religion. And he got sober.

Then he channeled the same resilience and toughness that once helped him stop 90 mph pucks as a goalie into his new business.

And it’s paying off.

Even though he’s only been in business for eight months, Bacon is proud to point out he hasn’t had a single negative review.

“At the end of the day, my business wouldn’t be possible without everyone supporting it,” says Bacon, taking a rare hour off on a weekday morning to chat in a West Fargo coffee shop. “I take care of the people as much as they’re taking care of me.”

Bacon isn’t a big guy, but he possesses a wiry athleticism that suggests he could move a refrigerator by himself in a pinch. Likable and polite, he wears his company T-shirt, which depicts his grinning cartoon avatar holding up a full garbage bag.

Where his T-shirt sleeves end, his arms are covered with tattoos about God and faith. They serve as reminders of his spiritual life, which he says has kept him on the straight and narrow.

“That’s also something I just tried — just practicing being a good man and living to the Lord and being good to people,and honestly just focusing on my day-to-day actions,” he says.

'He was my everything'
Bacon was born in California, where his parents had met while both worked for the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol in San Diego. They moved to Grand Forks while he was still a baby.

Early on, Bacon discovered a love for hockey. While still in high school, he moved to Omaha, Nebraska, to compete at the Triple A level, the highest level of youth and amateur hockey in the U.S.

He later was a goalie for the Colorado Rampage, a team that routinely wins state championships and produces many professional, NCAA and junior players.

“We would travel and we would fly all over and it was a pretty cool experience,” he says.

But life can cross-check us into the boards when we least expect it. Bacon's dad, Chris, was just 51 when he died in a car crash.

Bacon's world was shattered. “As I got older, I definitely played for him,” he recalls. “He was my No. 1. He was everything.”

After that year, Bacon hung up his skates for good. “Life got rough for a little bit,” he recalls. “As a teenager with (losing) your dad, you kind of go off the rails and you don’t really know what to do.”

Overwhelmed with grief, Bacon says he started hanging out with the wrong people. By age 18, he was doing drugs. He would struggle with addiction for several years.

Through it all, Bacon says his mom, Michelle Langton, was “my rock.”

“She’s the strongest woman I know,” he says. “She always had my back. She was always there to help me.”

Even so, Bacon says, she couldn’t watch him 24/7 to make sure he didn’t use.

In 2022, Bacon relocated to Fargo. His mom was helping him move into a south Fargo apartment complex when both spotted a very pretty young woman who lived there.

“My mom saw her and said, ‘She’s going to be trouble,” Bacon recalls, laughing.

He and the young woman, Dessirae Thompson, continued to bump into each other in the public spaces of their complex. They started talking, which led to dating. And Bacon grew increasingly more motivated to turn his life around.

“That’s when I really started getting sober,” he says. “I just had a great partner. When I would relapse with her, she would just say, ‘Hey, it’s part of the process and it’s alright. We’re gonna make it further this time.'"

Over time, Bacon realized his cravings lessened and his periods of sobriety grew longer. Today, Bacon has two years of sobriety under his belt.

Mattress sales by day; junk-hauling by night
As his future brightened, Bacon leaned into his natural “hustle mentality,” resilience and determination that had aided him as an athlete.

He landed a position with Dilworth-based Same Day Mattress, owned by Kyle Jaeger. Jaeger encouraged Bacon to pay more attention to his spiritual life in his quest to follow a healthier path.

Bacon also began following an entrepreneur on Instagram named Hunter Patrick, who routinely posted to his 202,000 followers about his successful junk business, Dumpire.

Encouraged by role models like Jaeger and Patrick, Bacon bought an ’02 GMC Sierra truck to start his junk business. He started out by hauling items in his truck bed and advertised on Next Door.

One job quickly led to another. Initially, Bacon worked on the junk business whenever he wasn’t at the mattress store. He would get up to do junk jobs from 7 a.m. to 10:30 a.m., then work at the Dilworth store from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. before squeezing in more junk appointments from 6:30 p.m. to 9 p.m.

Bacon also promoted his services via roadside signs and on Facebook and Instagram. He invested in a GoPro, which allowed him to film his clean-ups, quickly edit them and post them.

He did so well that he was able to quit his full-time job after three months. He also bought a trailer, which meant he could do several jobs without needing to drive to the landfill as frequently. And he was able to hire sober friends to help out on bigger jobs.

Now he's doing so well that he hopes to buy a new truck next year.

“I think last month I made 12 grand,” he says. “There's some months where, you know, you make three grand or five grand. It's just kind of volatile. I think next summer, though, it'll be really good, because I know how to run a business now and I know with the advertising I have, I'll have returning customers.”

A service everyone needs
So who needs junk removal? Just about everyone, Bacon says. He estimates that 50 to 60% of his customers are senior citizens, who are downsizing and need help with the heavy-duty lifting and hauling.

Middle-aged homeowners make up the second largest group, although Bacon points out there are also some Gen Z clients who hire him.

“A lot of homeowners have a ton of junk that they accumulate and that they don’t even know about over the years,” he says.

Besides homeowners, Bacon also works with businesses like Von Maur, the luxury department store at West Acres Mall. The store’s cardboard baler was broken, so he cleared out enough boxes in the retailer’s back room to fill a 16-foot trailer.

Realtors and property managers have contacted Bacon to clean up neglected yards or clear out garages or basements when the previous occupants left garbage behind.

Bacon also provides some moving services, heavy appliance removal, hot tub removal and yard cleanup.

Most of what he collects heads to the landfill, although he will haul still-usable items to places like Habitat for Humanity’s ReStore shop in Moorhead or local thrift stores.

On some occasions, he is surprised by what the client wants thrown away and will ask if he can keep it. That’s how he inherited a variety of vintage Budweiser signs after cleaning out a bar in Horace.

“I’m putting those in my man cave,” he says.

So what does junk-removal cost? He charges a minimum of $100, which covers dump fees, transportation and labor.

A job that fills one-fourth of the trailer is $125, while a full trailer is $375.

He typically charges $50 or so for travel, depending on how far they have to drive. And if he sees people are in a tough situation financially, he often offers discounts.

In fact, Bacon seems as interested in helping customers as he is in turning a profit. “What’s important to us is their business and helping them and us getting a good reputation for the work we do,” he says.

He hopes to do other good works during the holidays, such as purchasing turkeys to distribute to families whose Thanksgiving tables might otherwise be bare.

It’s all part of living a life of sobriety, faith and good will toward others.

“All it took was for me to get sober and then I finally saw my potential there,” he says. “I finally found who I am. And to be honest with you, I wouldn’t change it for the world."

Find Jake's Junk Removal on Facebook.
